# Income-Reconciliation
High-resolution income projections for Washington state under different Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) are essential for the climate change research communities to devise climate change adaptation and mitigation strategies. To generate these income projections, we obtain state-level GDP per capita projections and convert them into projected annual household income. The resulting state-level income projections are subsequently downscaled to the census block-level based on the Longitudinal Origin-Destination Employment Statistics (LODES) dataset from 2002 to 2015. For accuracy assessment, we downscale historical income data between 2016 and 2019 from state- level to block- and block group-level and compare the downscaled result against the actual income data from LODES. County-level accuracy assessment for 2020 is also conducted based on American Community Survey data.The assessment results demonstrate a good agreement (Average R2 of 0.67, 0.8, and 0.99 for block-, block group-, and county-level, respectively) between the downscaled income data and the reference data, thereby validating the methodology employed. Income projections from our approach under different SSPs for Washington state can be utilized by a broader audience, including those involved in demographic analysis, economic research, and urban planning.

"Income Reconciliation.R" provides code for reconciliating income from  state-level projected decile gdp per capita under different SSPs to block-level household number by 3 income bins (<$18,150; $18,150 ~ $48396, > $48,396). "LODES-based accuracy assessment.R" provides code for validating the downscaling method based on LODES 2016 - 2020. "ACS-based accuracy assessment.R" provides code for county-level accuracy assessment of income projections in 2020 under SSP2, using American Commmuty Survey as reference data. 
